In the last section I gave you a quick introduction to Cyanic Job Book.

In this video I’m going to show you how to set up your office,

and talk a little bit about how offices are used overall in the Job Book system.



Every company needs at least one Office in Job Book.

Every Job is associated with an Office.

A lot of companies only have one office but some companies run multiple offices. Or have one office but run multiple business units out of an office for tracking purposes.

Either way every company need at least one office in Job Book.

So let me show you how to do that.


[Setup]

What you are looking at now is the Job Book dashboard.

You see the dashboard after you log into the system.

When you first get the Job Book System, you will be given a blank system.

As an Administrator, it’s your job to setup Job Book.

The first thing you should do is setup Job Book with an Office.

To do that click the Navigate BUTTON at the top left.

Then Click on Administration.

Then Click on Offices.



I've gone ahead and created a Head Office in the system.

If you click on the office you can see

[Click on the office]



The Name of the office,

and the Address of the office.



The Edit button will edit the office.



And the Back button will take you back to the main office screen.

[Click Back Button]



You can create as many offices in Job Book as you like.

Let's create another office in Job Book

[Click Create]



Now fill in the name of your office... let's call it Subdivision.

[Subdivision]



Customers do not see the name of your office in Job Book, only the users of Job Book see them.



Now let's give it the same address as the head office from before.

[2032 W Gray St Houston TX 77019]

Once completed hit Save

And that's how you create offices in Job Book.

[Click on the Navigate Home]

[How are offices used]

Every time you create a job in Job Book you need to select what office that job will be run out of.

The dropdown is populated by the offices you created.



If you are interested in Job Creation,

hope on over to our How to Use Job Book series

or look for a link to the video in the description bellow.



The Office is displayed throughout the Backlogs, Reports and Maps, in Job Book.

Again, see our How to Use Job Book series for more information on those reports.



You might be wondering where the address is used for offices in Job Book.

Those are used when generating invoices in Job Book.

Let's look at an example invoice.

---

Here is an example of an invoice generated by the system.

When an Invoice is generated the Address of the office, will be show on the Invoice under the logo of your company.



[Conclusion]

That is all there is for offices.

In the next video I’m going to talk to you about what line items are in Job Book.

And in upcoming videos I’m going to show you how to setup the various types of the Line Items in Job Book.



Hope you enjoy

