Welcome back to the Job Book How to Use Series. 

This series is for staff who are working with Job Book daily. 

If you’re joining mid-series, start at the beginning as each video builds on the last.

In the last section, I gave you an introduction to this series. 
In this section, I’ll show you how to use the dashboard to stay on top of your work.

In the Setup Series we explained that every user has a role.
Your role determines what you can see and do in Job Book.

First, we’ll look at the dashboard as a Technician, then as an Administrator.

Let’s hop in. 
I’m logged in as a Technician.

I've just logged into the system as a Technician.

When you first log in to Job Book, you’ll land on the dashboard.

At the top left, you’ll see the Navigate button. This is your main menu. 

At the top right, you'll see the Settings button. This is your user settings. 

For daily work, most staff won’t need the Navigate or Settings menus. The Dashboard has everything you need.

On the dashboard you’ll see what we call Cards.
Most cards work the same way. Use Create New to add something new, or Explore to view and edit.

Depending on the modules your company has and permissions your company has given to you, you might see fewer cards than in this video.

In this system starting on the top left card we see:

The My Tasks Card. This is part of the tasking and scheduling module. 
You’ll see My Schedule, which shows your calendar, 
and My Unscheduled Tasks, which lists tasks that haven’t been scheduled.

The Daily Work Records Card is where you create and manage DWRs.
You can think of DWRs like timesheets but different. More on this later in this series. 

The next card is Personal Reports.
You have a My Time Cards report, allowing you to see a report and status of your time cards,
and a My Expense Report, allowing you to see a report and status of your expenses. 

Next to that you have the Expense Card. This is where you create and manage expenses you need to be reimbursed for. 

On the top right you have the Leave Requests card. This is the Leave module. 
The Company Calendar button, is where you can view leaves on a calendar.

On the bottom left we can see the Assets card. This is the asset module.

On the bottom right there is the Safety module. 
There is the Hazards / Tailgate Create button and the Hazards / Tailgate Explore button.
There are multiple forms in the safety module and they can all be accessed via the More button.

As a Technician your day will most likely consist of looking at your tasks and creating DWRs, all of that is accessible from the Dashboard.

Let's take a look at the dashboard now using the role of Administrator.
Administrators have access to all the Cards in the system. 
Managers and Job Coordinators are limited in their permissions and what Cards and Buttons they can see.
Let's take a look at what Administrators see.

I'm now logged into the system as an Administrator role.
I'll make note of any Buttons or Cards, Managers and Job Coordinators don't have access to. 
I'll skip over any of the cards we've already covered as a Technician role as needed.

Starting on the top left card we see:

The Clients Card. This is your client database.
Missing from the Manager role but available to the Administrator and Job Coordinator is the Create New button.
Only Administrators and Job Coordinators can modify clients using the Explore button.

Next to the Clients Card is the Jobs Card. This is your jobs database.
There is the Active Job Dashboard button, where you can view all your active jobs.
Missing from the Manager role but available to the Administrator and Job Coordinator is the Create New button.
Only Administrators and Job Coordinators can modify jobs using the Explore button. Managers only have view access.

Next to the Jobs Card is the Tasks and Scheduling Card. This is part of the tasking and scheduling module. This Card is missing to the Job Coordinators.
There is the Task Dashboard button, where you can view all the tasks in Job Book. 
There is the Task Scheduler button, this is a calendar view where you assign tasks to employees by dragging and dropping tasks onto them.
And finally there is the Explore Task Templates button. This is where you create task templates to apply to jobs. 

The My Task and Daily Work Records cards we already talked about.

The next row on the left there is the Invoice Card. This is where all the invoices in Job Book are. This Card is missing to the Job Coordinators.
Here we have the Invoice Export button, where you can export your invoices to Excel.
Typically project managers go here to approve invoices for import into your accounting system.

Next to the Invoice Card is the Rate Sheets Card. This is where you create rate sheet templates to apply to customers or jobs. This Card is missing to the Job Coordinators.
Missing from the Manager role but available to the Administrator role is the Create New button.
Then there is the Standard Rates button, where you can view all the cost items in the system.

The next three cards: Workflow, Time & Expense Reports, and Cost Reports are not available to Job Coordinators. 

The Workflow Card shows all approval backlogs for DWRs, expenses, and invoices.
The DWR Approval Backlog lets you review and approve timesheets.
The DWR Invoice Backlog lets you convert approved DWRs on T&M jobs into invoices.
The Expense Approval Backlog lets you review and approve expenses.
The Invoice Process Backlog lets you export finalized invoices into your accounting system.

Next to the Workflow Card is the Time & Expense Reports Card. 
This card provides reporting on labour hours, utilization, and expenses.
The Time Card Report shows labour hours and can be exported to Excel for payroll. 
The Time Grid aggregates hours per employee and helps catch errors. 
The Utilization Report shows utilization, chargeability, and effective rate. 
The Expense Report lists all expenses and their status.

The last card on the right is the Cost Reports Card. Also a good reporting hub.
The Line Item Report button will generate a report and show you all the line items used and the amounts used.
The WIP Report button will generate a work in progress report that will show you all your in flight work and what has been invoiced and what has not been invoiced. 

Moving down and on the left we have the Personal Reports and Expenses Cards covered already.

Next to the Expenses Card is the Leave Requests Card. 
Administrators and Managers have access to the Leave Request Report button. This is a report that shows all the leave requests and the status. 
The Company Calendar, Create New, and Explore, buttons were already covered earlier.

Next to the Leave Requests Card is the Assets card. 
Administrators and Managers have access to the Manage Assets button. This allows you to manage your company’s assets and even assign ownership to employees.
The Create New, and Explore, buttons were covered earlier.

On the right side we have the Safety Card covered already. 

Finally at the bottom we have the Job Maps Card.
The search button will allow you to see all jobs in the system on a map. 
There is a geospatial map where you can see physically where past jobs were and you can search and filter them as needed.

If you’re interested in the 
Task & Scheduling module,
The Leave Requests module,
Or the Assets module, 
We have created series for each.
See the description for more information.

For information on the 
various Reports, 
see our Job Book 
Reporting Guide series.

Or click on the link below 
in the description to learn more.

That’s the dashboard overview. 
In the next video, we’ll create Clients, followed by Jobs.

Thanks for watching!
and I'll see you in the next video!
