Welcome back to the Job Book How to Use Series.

This series is for staff who are working with Job Book daily. 

If you’re joining mid-series, start at the beginning since each video builds on the one before it.

In the last section, I showed you the dashboard. 
In this video, I’ll show you how to create clients in Job Book.

Before you can create jobs in Job Book, you first need to set up a client. Every job in Job Book must be tied to a client record.

Let’s go ahead and create a client in the system.

As you may remember from the Dashboard Overview video only a person with the role of Administror or Job Coordinator is able to create a client.
So I'll log into into the system as an Administrator role.

From the dashboard, click the Create New button inside the Clients Card at the top left.
-- Click Create New --

The first tab is the client tab and the first field is Client Name. 
As you may remember from the Job Book Setup Series, any field with a red star is required.
The Client Name is usually the company name. For residential work, use the homeowner’s name.

Let’s enter the client name: “Springfield Engineering Ltd.”

The rest of the fields in the Client tab are not required to make a client but let's go through them anyhow. 

Next is Website. Let's enter: "www.springfield.com"

Then Client Types. Here you can tag this customer with multiple premade types. Doing so will allow you to filter clients by type.
I'll select: Construction and Engineers

After that, Rate Sheet. You can set a default Rate Sheet to this customer such that whenever you create a job for this customer it will default to this rate sheet. 
Assuming you've watched the Job Book Setup Series and have setup some rate sheets in your system you should be able to select a Rate Sheet to apply to this customer. 
In my case I'll pick: "Standard Rates"

Next is Payment Terms. You can choose a preset option or type in custom terms. Payment terms are for reference only and don’t affect system behavior.
I'll select: "Account - 30" 
That way I’ll know to follow up if the customer hasn’t paid within 30 days.

Then the Notes field. You can type multiple lines here as notes on the customer.
I'll leave this blank for now. 

There is an Attachments button where you can upload files pertaining to the customer. 
I'll leave this blank for now. 

Let's move to the Contacts tab. 
-- Click Contacts tab --

Here you can add as many contacts to the client as you like. 
-- Click Add --

You’ll see that First Name and Last Name are required. The other fields are optional.
I'll go ahead and fill this out. 

If this client has more than one contact simply add more by clicking on the Add button on the bottom.
-- Click Add --

I'll go ahead and fill the second contact out also.

Once you've filled out the contacts scroll up and click on the the Addresses tab.
-- Click Addresses --

Here you can add billing addresses for invoices. These are not job site addresses.
Click the Add button to add an address to this client.
-- Click Add --

The first field is the Location Name and is required. The rest are not. 
I'll go ahead and fill this out.

If your customer has multiple offices or mailing addresses you would add them here. 
I'll go ahead and add another location to this client. 

Once you have that completed scroll down to the Save button and click save.
-- Click Save --

If you missed a required field the system will highlight it in red. If you don't see the red field check the other tabs.

Once all the required fields are set you should be able to save the client and you will go back to the dashboard.

Don't worry, if you made any mistakes creating the client you can always edit them. 

To edit a client, from the dashboard, click the Explore button inside the Clients Card at the top left.
-- Click Explore --

You'll see the Client Item List. It defaults to the Active clients tab.
If you want to see all your clients you can click on the All tab. 
This will show you all the active and inactive clients in the system. 

To edit a specific client, simply click the client.
-- Click Client --

From the client display screen you can edit, export to PDF, delete, or return to the client list.
Since referenced clients can’t be deleted, the best practice is to deactivate them instead.
More on that later. 

To Edit the client click the Edit button
-- Click Edit --

Notice this client now has both a System Client Number and a Client Number Alias.

The Client Number Alias can be edited to any unique text you like. 

You can go ahead and edit any field you like. 

At the bottom of the client there is an Active checkbox. 

Because the system does not allow referenced data to be deleted best practice is to deactivate Clients instead of deleting them.

Once all your edits are complete remember to click the Save button.
-- Click Save --

This will take you back to the Client Item List.

I'm going to go ahead and create a few more clients in the system.
Feel free to pause the video and create your own clients.

We’ll use these clients throughout the rest of the How to Use Job Book series and in future training videos.

So how are Clients used in the system?

Like we said every job in Job Book must be tied to a client record.

When exporting invoices to your accounting system, all invoices need to include the client's name and address.

If you’re interested in exporting 
invoices to your accounting system, 
keep watching this series.

For information on 
Client Reports, 
see our 
Job Book Reporting Guide series.

Or click on the link below 
in the description to learn more.

That’s everything you need to know to get started with creating and managing clients in Job Book.

In the next video, 
I’ll show you how to
create Jobs in Job Book. 

After that, we’ll cover creating DWRs.

Thanks for watching!
and I'll see you in the next video!
