Welcome back to the Job Book How to Use Series.

This series is for staff who are working with Job Book daily. 

If you’re joining mid-series, start at the beginning since each video builds on the one before it.

In the last section, I showed you how to create clients in Job Book. 
In this video, I’ll show you how to create jobs in Job Book.

Every project your company works on should be created as a job in Job Book. 
Jobs tie together clients, offices, project managers, and line items.

Let’s walk through creating a job.

As you may remember from the Dashboard Overview video, only Administrators or Job Coordinators can create jobs.
So I’ll log in as an Administrator role.

From the dashboard, click the Create New button inside the Jobs Card second from the top left.
-- Click Create New --

The first field is Job Number. This is required. 
Job Book will automatically generate a number for you, but you can overwrite it with your own company’s numbering system if you prefer.

Next to the Job Number is the Job Number Counter.
You can change the counter by unlocking the blue lock button with a click.
This unlocks the Job Number Counter so you can set it.
I'll set this to: "250001"
When you click the blue lock button it will lock in the counter.

Notice the Job Number now defaults to the Job Number Counter.

Next is the Client field. 
Here you can either create a new client or pick one from the dropdown list of clients you’ve already created.
Let’s choose “Acme Corporation” from the list.

For Client Location you have the option of either using the dropdown and selecting a location you previously made for the client, 
or filling in the Client Address at the time of job creation.
I'll use the dropdown and select: "Head Office"

Notice the Client Address gets auto populated with the address we set when we created the Client in the previous video.

Next is the Project Name. 
Let’s enter the name of our job: “Boundary Survey 5th Avenue”

After that is the Status. This dropdown is required.
Setting the status and updating the status of the job frequently is considered best practice.
That way staff know exactly where jobs are in the workflow. 
I'll select: "Job Setup" from the list. 

The Add Location button is where you set the job location.
You can add multiple locations to a job if needed. 
For this example, I'll just be adding one location. 

-- Click Add Location -- 
Clicking the Add Location button will add a location to a job.
Here we can see:
Location Name, this is just a site name.
Municipal Address, this is the address the system will try to find on a map. More on that later. 
State or Province
And City.

The Legal Addresses button allows you to include data such as Lot, Block, Plan, and Section, Township, Range, if needed.

I'll go ahead and fill in a location name and municipal address for this job. 
-- PAUSE --

As you can see, I've filled in all the fields.
You'll notice the GPS Coordinates are blank.
If I click on the Map Display dropdown the system will try to find the municipal address. 
-- CLICK Map Display --

As you can see the system found the address and placed a blue pin on the mark. 
If you want to move the pin, simply left click anywhere on the map and the pin will move.
Notice the GPS coordinate also updates. 

Below the Add Location button is the Contacts button.
Like the Add Location button you can add multiple contacts.
-- Click Add Location --

When you click on the Contact button it will add two fields.
The Contact dropdown and the Add to DWR slash Invoice checkbox. 
-- Click Contact dropdown --

The Contact dropdown contains all the contacts we created on the Client.
You can pick an existing contact or create a new one.

I'll pick a contact.
The Add to DWR slash Invoice checkbox will add that selected contact to the DWR and Invoice.
See the creating DWRs and creating Invoices videos in this series for what that looks like. 

Below the Add Contact button is the Project Shared Folder.
Many firms use cloud storage or a share drive to store project data.
You can add a link to either so staff can easily access project data.

The next required field is Project Manager. 
Every job needs a project manager. 
Best practice is for Project Managers to approve DWRs and sign off on invoices for the jobs they’re responsible for.


I'll click on the dropdown and
Select: Lance

The next field is Salesperson or Representative.
Just like Project Manager you can select an employee here.
It's not a required field so I'll skip it.

After that you have the Office field.
This is a dropdown with all your offices or departments.
Every job must be tied to an office. 
If your company has multiple offices, select the one this project is running out of. 
When I click the dropdown notice these are the offices we created in the Job Book Setup Guide.
I'll pick: "Head Office"

The Client Project number, PO number, and Subcontract number fields are self explanatory and I'l skip over them.

The PO Amount field is the dollar amount the job is worth.
This will be displayed in the Active Job Dashboard. 
More on that in later videos. 

After the Subcontract # you'll see the required field, DWR Billing Type.

In Job Book there are 4 different billing types:
Overhead, Non-Chargeable, Fixed Price, and Time & Materials

An overhead job is typically work done for internal business operations. 
Think administrative tasks, training, vacation, and similar work.

Non-chargeable jobs often support client work or projects, but for various reasons, cannot or should not be billed to the client.
Think equipment maintenance, internal project work, rework or fixes, bench time and so forth. 

A fixed price or sometimes called lump sum job, is a job where there is a set price for a job. 

Finally, a time & materials, or T&M job, is a job where you bill the customer based on the time and materials spent on the job. 

Under DWR Billing Type, is the Invoice Type field.
The options here are Ticket slash Invoice or Invoice.
Most of the time you will set your job to simply be Invoice. 

But sometimes some of your customers might want to see all the hours worked on a job, without the money associated for that work.
If that is the case set the job to Ticket slash Invoice.
We’ll talk more about this in the invoicing section later in the series.

Next after Invoice Type we have Invoice Line-Item Type.
Detailed will show an individual breakdown of all the line items on the invoice.
Summarized will combine the same line items together aggregating them.

For example, say you did a T&M job and you had a one-man crew working: 8 hours on Monday, 8 hours on Tuesday, and 4 hours on Wednesday.
If the invoice was set to detailed it will have 3 lines for each day of work. 
If the invoice was set to summarized it will have one line saying one man crew, 20 hours.

It might become clearer when you watch the invoicing section in this series. 

Next, we have the GL Code Prefix.
This is used with accounting systems like Sage when companies want to code jobs for import.

After that is the Job Categories.
Like client types, here you can tag this job with multiple categories. Doing so will allow you to filter jobs by their categories.
I'll select: Construction and Engineering

Next there is Job Scope. 
Just like job categories these are more tags you can add to the job. As you can see we have many job scopes you can tag the job with.
I'll select: Boundary Stake-Out and Commercial Building Construction

If there is a scope, you'd like to use that isn't on the list the Job Scope Details is a free form field where you can add additional scopes. 

Order Date and Due Date are fairly self explanatory. 
The due date will be visible on the Active Job Dashboard.

I'll set the order date September 15th and the due date October 31st.

You can add multiple taxes to the job if applicable.
-- Click Add --
-- Click X --

And you can add multiple fees as a percent to the job if needed.
-- Click Add --
An example of a fee would be a percent fee for administration. 
-- Click X --

Additional Fields will create additional fields on the invoice 
-- Click Add --
-- Click X --

There’s also a Notes field. Use this to store any internal notes about the job. 

Next, we have the Rate Sheet. 
You'll notice the "Standard Rates" rate sheet was selected by default. 
This is because when we created the client, we assigned that rate sheet as the default. 
So when we created this job for the "Acme" client it used the default rate sheet. 

You can use a different rate sheet if you like, by simply clicking on the dropdown and selecting a different rate sheet to apply to the job. 
I'll pick: "Construction Survey"

The Billable Line Items section consist of a collection of line items.
Labour Costs, 
-- Click Equipment & Materials --
Equipment & Materials, 
-- Click Fixed Price --
and Fixed Price line items. 
-- Click Labour Costs --

Pick the items your staff will use on this job.
When you select a line item, it pulls the default rate from the system. 
You can adjust rates for this specific job if needed.
You have the option of manually selecting individual line items to add to the job.
Or you can click the blue Replace Line Items with Rate Sheet button.
This will import the rate sheet template we created in the How-to Setup Job Book video series.
-- Click Replace Line Items with Rate Sheet -- 

As you can see:
Labour Costs, 
--Scroll down -- 
-- Click Equipment & Materials --
Equipment & Materials, 
-- Click Fixed Price --
and Fixed Price line items. 
--Scroll down --

Have been imported from our "Construction Survey" rate sheet.
-- Click Labour Costs --

You can still manually remove or add line items.
For example, for this job it looks like there are two field staff available to work.
Let's change that. Let's remove the "Survey Assist" and "Party Chief". You can do that by clicking on the X to the left of the line item.
-- Click X --
-- Click X --

Now they are removed but we don't have any field staff line items that people can select and use. Let's add a new line item.
Click the Add button.
-- Click Add --

Notice everything is blank. Click on the Cost Item dropdown
and select: "1 Man Survey Crew"

This is the order the line items are in. If you want to change the order, simply click on the arrows to move the line items. 
I'm going to move the "1 Man Survey Crew" to the top.

Let's take a look at the Fixed Price tab.
-- Click Fixed Price --
There are a lot of line items here we don't need. 
I'm going to remove all of them besides "Construction Survey"

Ok that looks good. Let's go back to the Labour Costs tab.
-- Click Labour Costs --

Let's take a closer look at the individual line items.
Notice the "Unit Cost" for the "1 Man Survey Crew" was automatically set. 
This number came from the default rate that we set in the How-to Setup Job Book video series.

Let's change that to: "$160"

The CAD, Project Manager, and Professional Land Surveyor "Unit Cost" was taken from the "Construction Survey" rate sheet.
You can also override those unit costs but I won't bother.

At this point, you might be wondering about the empty "Budget Quantity" fields. 

The budget quantity fields are used when estimating the amount of time or quantity a line item will take for a given job.
Every job you do regardless if it's fixed price or T&M should have an estimate associated with it. 
Best practice is to fill in the budget quantity for each individual line items based on the estimate. 
We cover budget quantity more in depth in our Job Book Reporting guide series. 

For now, I'm going to fill in the budget quantity for all the line items. 

Now that, that is done, I'm going to save this job. 
Don't worry if you need to make any changes to the job, you can always go back and edit the job.
-- Click Save --

Once the job is saved, you'll see the Jobs Item List. It defaults to the Active jobs tab.
The Inactive and the All tab with show you the inactive jobs and all the jobs in the system respectfully. 

To edit a specific job, simply click the job.
-- Click Job --

From the job display screen you can edit, export to PDF, close, delete, or return to the job list.
More cloning and deleting jobs later.

To Edit the job, click the Edit button
-- Click Edit --

You can go ahead and edit any field you like. Including the Job Number.

At the bottom of the job there is an Active checkbox. 

Once a job is completed and invoiced the best practice is to deactivate the job in the system. 
A deactivated job can’t be selected when creating DWRs.
You can always reactivate a job if it becomes active again or if you need to assign time to it.

All jobs are still visible in the All tab and still visible in the Job Maps.
 
Because the system does not allow referenced data to be deleted best practice is to deactivate Jobs instead of deleting them.

Once all your edits are complete remember to click the Save button.
-- Click Save --

This will take you back to the Job Display screen.

If you click the Clone button, it will create a copy of the job.
A new Job Number will be assigned.
The Status of the job, the PO #, and PO Amount will not be set. 
All the other data will be copied.

Cloning a job is useful if a project has components that need to be invoiced separately.
For example, jobs that have phases or different job scopes.

I'm going to go ahead and create a few more jobs in the system.
Feel free to pause the video and create your own jobs.

We’ll use these jobs throughout the rest of the How to Use Job Book series and in future training videos.

-- --

So why are jobs important?
Every DWR, expense, and invoice must be tied to a job.  
Jobs give you real-time visibility on project progress.  
Reports and backlogs are organized by job.  

For information on Job Reports, 
see our Job Book Reporting Guide series.

Or click on the link below in the description to learn more.

That’s everything you need to know to start creating and managing jobs in Job Book.

In the next video, I’ll show you how to create Daily Work Records, or DWRs, which your staff will use to record time and materials.

After that, we’ll cover creating Expenses.

Thanks for watching!
and I'll see you in the next video!
